dry skin brushing or body brushing is
excellent to do everyday before a bath
or a shower it uses natural bristles and
it's great for boosting circulation to
help remove waste it helps to know if
toxins through a boost to your lymphatic
system which will improve the appearance
of cellulite it's great for removing
dead skin cells it will therefore
improve the tone and condition of your
skin and it helps to unblock the pores
and also helps to tackle any and growing
hairs so all we have to do is use
sweeping strokes on the body towards the
heart which is the venous return we just
do alternative strokes with the hand but
we always avoid broken skin and
sensitive areas so here's how it's done
so to begin with dry skin brushing or
body brushing all you do is start to the
feet and to just brushing upwards in the
direction of the heart and you're
alternating each stroke with your hand
so cover the area and then just move up
and the amplified and then when you're
quite happy that you've covered it
you'll just move on to the other leg and
then we'll demonstrate the arms so for
the dry skin brushing on the arm again
you're just alternating and you're just
working up from the fingertips just up
to the shoulder you're just taking your
time completely up in the area and you
can turn around and work on the inside
and then when you're ready you can just
work over the neck area too and that
time you're working downwards because
again is to the the floor and the
direction of the heart to continue your
body brushing you're still working in
the venous return which is the direction
of the heart so it's simply brushing
upwards and some people choose to do
more of a circular motion so if you did
want to you could work in circles but
the easiest way is just to brush and
then alternate with your hand
dry skin brushing on the back of the leg
exactly the same principle you're just
alternating the brush with your hand and
you can also spend a little bit of time
on the sole of the foot if there's any
dry skin there and it just helps to
really start to remove that dryness and
get a really good circulation boost or
in the back of the leg you tend to have
any cellulite or anything pull the skin
again this is really great just to spend
some time here and encourage the toxin
removal so spend a little bit of time
and just make sure you're looking for
maybe even a little bit of erythema but
nothing excessive so maybe just a few
minutes just brushing up with that idea
the last part of the dry skin brushing
is just working on the back and you're
working upwards to the heart and then on
the top of the back you're working
though and if anyone gets congestion on
the back this is great to help unblock
the pores and give the circulation a
boost and if there's any dry skin that
will be adds into any congestion - so
you're really helping to improve the
appearance of this area so once you've
fully dry brush the body just clean your
brush in warm soapy water let it air dry
and then go for your bath or shower